What is "event sourcing" anyway? For the purposes of this explination, we consider "event sourcing" to refer to a persistance strategy where individual _events_ are stored as the primary system of record. The current state of an entity (i.e. answer the question of what value a property currently has) is _sourced_ from those events by aggregating them into a whole. This is similar to how a data warehouse would store individual fact records and present an average by dividing the sum of a numerator by the sum of a denominator.

We refer to the traditional design of transactional systems that we are most familiar with as "state mutation". In these systems a user activity is stored by loading _state_ and then _mutating_ that state before saving it back into the database. Sometimes these systems may also store an audit trail, however this audit is derived from the delta of the _state_.

Command Query Response Segregation (CQRS) refers to an API pattern. In a state mutation system, an API will typically convey the type of mutation to perform (e.x. DELETE a record, update a field, create a record, etc.). In a CQRS system, the API instead specifies *commands* that can be submitted by the client and *queries* that can be requested. This can be compared to the real life example of interacting with a government agency. If someone wants to make a modification to their home, they do not call the zoning board and "create a building permit". Rather, they submit a form that specifies the requred and optional information. This form may be considered a "building permit request". The city then takes this form and based on various rules creates a "building permit". This pattern fits well within a RESTful URL scheme. Each type of commmand has its own URL pattern as a sub-resource of the entity that is being affected and can be submitted with a POST. The current state of the entity (derived from the events) can be fetched with a GET request along with the collection of events.